MR. PRESIDENT: In this new
century, we live in a world that
has grown smaller and more
interconnected than at
any time in history.
Threats to our nation's security
and economy can no longer be
kept at bay by oceans or
by borders drawn on maps.
The terrorists who struck our
country on 9/11 plotted in
Hamburg, trained in Kandahar and
Karachi, and threaten countries
across the globe.
Cars in Boston and Beijing are
melting ice caps in the Arctic
that disrupt weather
patterns everywhere.
The theft of nuclear material
from the former Soviet Union
could lead to the extermination
of any city on earth.
And reckless speculation by
bankers in New York and London
has fueled a global recession
that is inflicting pain on
workers and families around
the world and across America.
The challenges of our time
threaten the peace and
prosperity of every single
nation, and no one nation can
meet them alone.
That is why it is sometimes
necessary for a President to
travel abroad in order to
protect and strengthen our
nation here at home.
That is what I have done this
week.
I began my trip by attending a summit of the G20- the
countries that represent the
world's largest economies -
because we know that the
success of America's economy is
inextricably linked to
that of the global economy.
If people in other countries
cannot spend, that means they
cannot buy the goods we produce
here in America, which means
more lost jobs and
more families hurting.
Just yesterday, we learned that
we lost hundreds of thousands
more jobs last month, adding to
the millions we've lost since
this recession began.
And if we continue to let banks
and other financial institutions
around the world act recklessly
and irresponsibly, that affects
institutions here at home as
credit dries up, and people
can't get loans to buy a home or
car, to run a small business or
pay for college.
Ultimately, the only way out of
a recession that is global in
scope is with a response that
is global in coordination.
That is why I'm pleased that
after two days of careful
negotiation, the G20 nations
have agreed on a series of
unprecedented steps that I
believe will be a turning point
in our pursuit of a
global economic recovery.
All of us are now moving
aggressively to get our banks
lending again.
All of us are working to
spur growth and create jobs.
And all of us have agreed on
the most sweeping reform of our
financial regulatory framework
in a generation - reform that
will help end the risky
speculation and market abuses
that have cost so
many people so much.
I also met this past week with
the leaders of China and Russia,
working to forge constructive
relationships to address issues
of common concern, while being
frank with each other about
where we disagree.
President Hu and I agreed that
the link between China's economy
and ours is of great mutual
benefit, and we established a
new Strategic and Economic
Dialogue between
the U.S. and China.
President Medvedev and I
discussed our shared commitment
to a world without nuclear
weapons, and we signed a
declaration putting America and
Russia on the path to a new
treaty to further reduce
our nuclear arsenals.
Tomorrow, I will lay out
additional steps we must take to
secure the world's loose nuclear
materials and stop the spread of
these deadly weapons.
Finally, I met yesterday with
our NATO allies and asked them
for additional civilian support
and assistance for our efforts
in Afghanistan.
That is where al Qaeda trains,
plots, and threatens to launch
their next attack.
And that attack could occur in
any nation, which means that
every nation has a stake in
ensuring that our mission in
Afghanistan succeeds.
As we have worked this week
to find common ground and
strengthen our alliances, we
have not solved all of our
problems.
And we have not agreed on every
point or every issue in every
meeting.
But we have made real and
unprecedented progress - and
will continue to do so in
the weeks and months ahead.
Because in the end, we recognize
that no corner of the globe can
wall itself off from the threats
of the twenty-first century, or
from the needs and
concerns of fellow nations.
The only way forward is through
shared and persistent efforts to
combat fear and want
wherever they exist.
That is the challenge
of our time.
And if we move forward with
courage and resolve, I am
confident that we will
meet this challenge.
Thank you.